<font color='red'><b>Draft Text - This page has not yet been formatted.</b></font>

# Introduction #

There are a number of application areas that are ideal candidates for the use of multicast, including media broadcasting, video conferencing, collaboration, real-time data feeds, data replication, and software updates.  Unfortunately, many of these applications lack multicast connectivity to networks that carry traffic generated by multicast sources.  The reasons for the lack of connectivity vary, but are primarily the result of service provider policies and network limitations.

Automatic Multicast Tunneling (AMT) is a protocol that uses UDP-based encapsulation to overcome the aforementioned lack of multicast connectivity.  AMT enables sites, hosts or applications that do not have native multicast access to a network with multicast connectivity to a source, to request and receive SSM [[RFC4607](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4607)] and ASM [[RFC1112](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1112)] traffic from a network that does provide multicast connectivity to that source.

# General Architecture #

The AMT protocol employs a client-server model in which a "gateway" sends requests to receive specific multicast traffic to a "relay" which responds by delivering the requested multicast traffic back to the gateway.
<table align='center'>
<tr><td align='center'><u>Client/Server Architecture</u></td></tr>
<tr><td><pre>
Isolated Site  |     Unicast Network    |  Native Multicast<br>
|       (Internet)       |<br>
|                        |<br>
|                        |<br>
|    Group Membership    |<br>
+-------+ ===========================> +-------+ Multicast +------+<br>
|Gateway|  |                        |  | Relay |<----//----|Source|<br>
+-------+ <=========================== +-------+           +------+<br>
|     Multicast Data     |<br>
|                        |<br>
|                        |<br>
</pre></td></tr>
</table>

Gateways are generally deployed within networks that lack multicast support or lack connectivity to a multicast-enabled network containing multicast sources of interest.
Relays are deployed within multicast-enabled networks that contain, or have connectivity to, multicast sources.

AMT relies on the Internet Group Management (IGMP) \[[RFC3376|http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3376]\] and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) \[[RFC3810|http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3810]\] protocols to provide the functionality required to manage, communicate, and act on changes in multicast group membership.
<table align='center'>
<tr><td align='center'><u>Multicast Reception State Managed By IGMP/MLD</u></td></tr>
<tr><td><pre>
Gateway                      Relay<br>
<br>
General _____         _____  General<br>
___________  Query |     |       |     | Query  ___________<br>
<br>
|           |<------|     |       |     |<------|           |<br>
| Host Mode |       | AMT |       | AMT |       |Router Mode|<br>
| IGMP/MLD  |       |     |  UDP  |     |       | IGMP/MLD  |<br>
|___________|------>|     |<----->|     |------>|___________|<br>
Report |     |       |     | Report<br>
Leave/Done |     |       |     | Leave/Done<br>
|     |       |     |<br>
IP Multicast <------|     |       |     |<------ IP Multicast<br>
|_____|       |_____|<br>
</pre></td></tr></table>

h2. Protocol Specification

The AMT protocol is described in [draft-ietf-mboned-auto-multicast|http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-mboned-auto-multicast/], an active Internet Draft in the IETF [|http://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/mboned/](mboned.md) working group.

h2. Business Cases

AMT can play an important role in making a business case for the use of multicast. Various customer-specific and general usage scenarios are discussed in [Cases](Business.md).

h2. Presentations

Several presentations describing AMT and its benefits exist. See [Presentations](Presentations.md) for documents and links.

h2. Implementations

Several relay and gateway implementations exist or are scheduled for release. See [Implementations](Implementations.md) for details.

h2. Deployments

AMT is now being deployed for demonstration, testing and application-specific purposes. See [Deployments](Deployments.md) for details.

h2. Demonstration and Testing

Resources and methods for demonstrating and testing AMT functionality are described in [and Testing](Demonstrations.md).

h2. Contacts

See [Contacts](Contacts.md) for information regarding people and groups involved in AMT development and deployment.
{column}
{section}