# Java SDK for Multicast Services

The JS4MS project provides a Java SDK and various executables that may be used to create multicast applications and services primarily through the use of RTSP and Automatic Multicast Tunneling (AMT) protocols.

UPDATE: The RFC approval process for AMT Internet-Draft is complete. The new standard is RFC-7450.
Visitors,

I have again taken a break from working on anything AMT-related, though I did return to work on the JS4MS project code for a brief period last year. I began a transition to Maven for builds and dependency management, but continued to use Eclipse as the primary development environment. To simplify the "Mavenizing" of the project I refactored and reorganized the codebase. I made good progress but there is still more to do.

I am now maintaining the following project artifacts:
Project Documentation.
Java Source Code.
API Javadocs.
The primary interface for gaining access to AMT functionality is provided by the AmtIPInterface class. A singleton AmtIPInterfaceManager instance must be used to construct instances of the AmtIPInterface class . The AmtUDPInterface class may be used to extract UDP datagrams from the IP packets generated by the AmtIPInterface These classes are contained in the org.js4ms.amt.gateway package. The IP and UDP interface classes are designed to be used with object interfaces defined in the org.js4ms.io.channel package.

The components listed above are one of many that are used to implement an RTSP multicast reflector (server) that uses AMT to receive multicast media streams. I am currently working to clean up the project that provides a Java Web Start (JWS) version(s) of the reflector. The JWS application jars must be served from a servlet container to properly support JWS versioning and updates. I will post a .WAR archive in the downloads section in the next day or two. I have been using my own Tomcat server for deployment, but plan to deploy the application to Google App Engine at http://js4ms-rtsp-reflector.appspot.com.

-g.b.

April 26, 2014

Greg Bumgardner
